Basics:
1. Release date: June 28th, 2018 or July 12th, 2018 (If we get everything ready by next Wednesay June 20th, we will hear back by June 27th; if we get everything done by July 4th, review will conclude on July 11th. I added a day after the review ends just in case.)

2. Release Name: 0.1.0

3. Description:

This will be the **initial release** of the Eclipse OMR project. 

The Eclipse OMR project is a set of open source C and C++ components that can be used to build robust language runtimes that support many different hardware and operating system platforms.

For this initial release, we will include the following components:

* **gc**: Garbage collection framework for managed heaps
* **compiler**: Components for building compiler technology, such as JIT compilers.
* **jitbuilder**: An easy to use high level abstraction on top of the compiler technology.
* **port**: Platform porting library
* **thread**: A cross platform pthread-like threading library
* **util**: general utilities useful for building cross platform runtimes
* **omrsigcompat**: Signal handling compatibility library
* **omrtrace**: Tracing library for communication with IBM Health Center monitoring tools
* **tool**: Code generation tools for the build system
* **vm**: APIs to manage per-interpreter and per-thread contexts
* **example**: Demonstration code to show how a language runtime might consume some Eclipse OMR components
* **fvtest**: A language-independent test framework so that Eclipse OMR components can be tested outside of a language runtime

While all of the above components are functionally stable, a few of them have not finalized an API yet. The list of components with stable APIs will grow with future releases. The table below summarizes the current status:

Component     | Functionality          | &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; API &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
:--------------|:---------------------:|:------------:
port          | :white_check_mark:    | :white_check_mark:
thread        | :white_check_mark:    | :white_check_mark:
util          | :white_check_mark:    | :white_check_mark:
omrtrace      | :white_check_mark:    | :white_check_mark:
tool          | :white_check_mark:    | :white_check_mark:
vm            | :white_check_mark:    | :white_check_mark:
fvtest        | :white_check_mark:    | :white_check_mark:
gc            | :white_check_mark:    | 
compiler      | :white_check_mark:    | 
jitbuilder    | :white_check_mark:    | 
omrsigcompat  | :white_check_mark:    | 
examples      | :white_check_mark:    | 

4. Release Type: Minor release

5. IP Due Diligence Type: 
    1. Type A - License Compatibility
    2. Type B - Full IP Due Diligence (License, Provenance, Scanning)
 
Project Plan:
1. Deliverables
2. Compatibility
3. Milestones
     1. Name, Date and Description for each milestone
4. Internationalization
5. Target Environments
     List OS / compilers versions tested on in the CI.  I am not sure how to format the list.
6. Themes - I think this is only a thing for Major releases
 

